So time to add some database logic and I will again use mongodb and mongoose
and I will use that same mongodb atlas server we configured earlier in the course.
So go back to that mongodb module if you want to see how that worked
and if you want to use MySQL or something like this, you can of course also take the knowledge you
gain in the MySQL related modules of the course and implement your own SQL solution here, to follow
along smoothly
you should use mongodb though.
I will again use the mongoose package,
so let's install it with npm install --save mongoose and that will be required to connect to
the database and to then of course also create our mongoose models, store data and so on.
I'll restart npm start thereafter and now
first of all let's connect. For this let's open the app.js file and let's import mongoose here by simply
requiring mongoose.
Now as you learned in the mongodb and the mongoose modules of this course, we then esstablish a connection
by using mongoose connect here and now we need a url, a connection url.
Now as I mentioned, I'll use that same connection
url I used before in the course
so that does not change,
I will just copy that,
here it is,
that is my atlas server to which I can connect and this now establishes a connection and then I can add
then and a catch block, catch in case this connection establishing fails,
then I want to log the error
but if we are successful, if we are in the then block here, then I will start my node server and start
listening to requests.
If we save that, it now gets restarted and it should succeed,
you can ignore this deprecation warning here by the way.
Now we're connected to mongoose or to mongodb through mongoose and now what can we do?
Well we have to create some models to work with right because that is how we interact with the database
ultimately.
So let's create a models folder here in our node rest API and I'll create a post.js file in there to
define how a post should look like.
There I will simply import mongoose by requiring mongoose from the mongoose package,
we can then extract the schema from that mongoose object, that schema constructor and use that to create
a new post schema,
you can name that however you want but you use new schema to now define how a post should look like
in your database and in your application.
Now you can of course define this in whichever way you want,
I want to have a title in there which will be of type string and you learned all about that schema declaration
thing in the mongoose module, so I'll be walking through that a bit faster.
So type will be string and let's say it's required
and we then also will have an image url
or image or however you want to name it and that will also be a string,
it will be a url pointing at that file and this will also be required.
Now we'll also have a content of course
where the type is string as well and which also is required, so thus far not too exciting.
Now I also will have a creator here and that will later be a link to a user,
for now I don't have that
so for now it will just be an object and be required
but this is only temporary, we'll change this later.
So this is my current set up.
Now I will pass an option to the schema constructor which we haven't seen before, we can configure this
and in that object I'm passing as a second argument to the schema constructor,
I can add the timestamps key and set this to true and mongoose will then automatically add timestamps
when a new version is added to the database, when a new object is added to the database.
So we automatically get a createdAt and updatedAt timestamp out of the box then
and you can learn more about that feature in the official mongoose docs of course.
Last but not least, we now need to export this
and you learned that we don't export the schema but a model based on the schema.
So I use mongoose and then the model method to create a model based on a schema,
you can name that model however you want,
I'll name it post and therefore this will create a post database and I will export my post schema
here or use my post schema,
so this is the model defined.
One important note about my connection string by the way in app.js, there
I'm connecting to a database and I will connect to my messages database, you can name this however you
want.
So now we'll connect to this database
and thanks to this model, there mongoose will use a posts collection for us when we start using that
model.
Well speaking of that, let's start using that model in the next lecture.